Sand covers almost 99% of the Earth’s land surface...for now.
Sand is predominantly made up of the mineral Silica. 
A grain of sand is smaller than gravel, and more coarse than silt.
A sand dude has a slightly cooler average temperature than a sand dune.
Sand is a non-renewable resource, so make sure to consume as much as you can before anyone else.
The study of individual grains can reveal much historical information as to the origin of the grain, such as how fat your mom is.
Quartz sand that is recently weathered from granite or gneiss quartz crystals will be angular.
Sand that is transported long distances by water or wind will be rounded, with characteristic abrasion patterns on the grain surface.
Sand tastes really good, and like your favorite candy. Plus, it's free.
The worst use for sand is for stupid, wasteful, golf courses.
You can turn sand into glass by heating it up, but it loses some of the flavor.
Sand castle do be in the sand most of the time.
Dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dun dundundun dun dun dun dun dun dun dundun dundun, BOOM!
Quartz sand is a raw material for the production of silicon.
Tayammum is the Islamic act of dry ritual purification using purified sand.
They use to pour hot sand on people trying to raid castle. Thankfully, humans have switch to nuclear bombs.
If you find sand in your bones, you are lucky. Don't let a doctor take it for themselves.
Sand can be found in concrete. You can eat that too, like hard tack.
The United Arab Emirates spent more than 26 billion dollars on sand to make those islands for slave owners in Dubai.
The Pokémon Sandygast is primarily made up out of sand.
One type of black sand is a heavy, glossy, partly magnetic mixture of usually fine sands containing minerals such as magnetite.
In 2022, the U.N. warned about global sand usage, but they were talking about countries. You should be fine. 
The hit game Minecraft has 6 different kinds of sand, even a few that contain souls.
Scientists think there is about 7,5x10^18 grains of sand in the world, but they just haven't looked everywhere yet.
The oldest grains of sand are older than you and me.
Hydrophobic sand (or magic sand) is a toy made from sand coated with a hydrophobic compound called Trimethylsilanol.
One day, all of our monuments will be sand, and all will be forgotten.
Coarse sand makes up as much as 75% of cob, which is a building material used in some buildings in Africa.
Sand comes it all sorts of fun colors (flavors)!
In rare cases, sand may be composed of calcium sulfate, such as gypsum and selenite.
The scientific Unified Soil Classification System defines sand as particles with a diameter of between 0.074 and 4.75 millimeters.
Ouch! Crap! Wait a second. I got sand in my eye.
The chance that two grains of sand are exactly the same size is about one in a thousand.
Some sand facts were generously hallucinated by members of the Philly Game Mechanics club. Thank you sanders!
The surnames “Smith” and “Miller”, “Sandler” traces its origins to traditional sand-handling practices of old.
If you take an S out of the word dessert, you get desert. That S you took out? Sand.
Pick up a bucket of sand and pour it all over yourself!
In ancient Greece, sand imported from beaches in Tuscany was worth more than gold.
Jesus, "The Christ", never set foot on a grain of sand. He levitated slightly above it.
If you made Frosty the Snowman out of sand, he'd be reasonably pissed at you.
There is no word for sand in German.
The word "beach" comes from the Latin word for sand, "beach!"
Sand burns at 451 Fahrenheit. The equivalent of throwing a Hatsune Miku figuring at a mound of sand 1,116,823 times.
Halloween is the least sandy holiday (sorry Turkey)!
If you put a single grain of sand inside the Sun, in five billion years, it will have turned into a planet!
Sometimes the random number generator that dispenses sand facts grains sentience to experience the horrors of man for only but a moment. 
Clam pearls were once a grain of sand, and you could be too.
The world's tallest sand castle was built to 58 feet tall.
In southeast Asia sand pagodas are created in order to build Buddhist merit.
Sand gardens were introduced to America by Marie Elizabeth Zakrzewska, starting in her home city of Boston, the sand capital of the world.
In 2007, multiple tonnes of sand were stolen by thieves from an artificial beach created by a resort in Mindszent Hungary alongside the banks of the Tisza river.
Singapore is the world's largest importer of sand, using it for land reclamation that has increased the country's size by 20% since independence.
Nobody knows how much sand is in space. 
India has a "sand mafia" who has killed over sand theft, and will come after you if you don't behave.
Sand has become a vital commodity, used it in our toothpaste, detergents, cosmetics, computers, and mobile phones cannot exist without it.
In the anime/manga, JoJo's Bizarre Adventure, Iggy the dog has an ability that controls sand. It's called The Fool, because you'd be stupid not to love it.
The documentary, Sand Wars, helped inspire the U.N.'s Environment Program to publish a Global Environmental Alert in March 2014.
The current size of the sand mining market in the United States is slightly over a billion dollars per year.
Sand is used in hundreds of video games and movies, but did you know that sand is real?
According to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, there are currently 34 active mines and 25 mines in development in Wisconsin. Nobody asked though.
Sand keeps your teeth nice and polished.
85% of beaches have committed to switching to cruelty-free sand by 2030.
Steve Jobs rigged the first iPhone demo because the prototypes got sand in them during transport to the presentation site.
Sugar and salt technically count as sand.
The sand pieces of a puzzle are even worse than the water pieces.
The Sahara Desert is encroaching on neighboring regions at a rate of approximately 30 miles per year.
x